Real hackers, both good and bad,
don't randomly attack things,
they use a specific life cycle or process to meet their goals.
This is in order to categorize the assets, risks, threats,
vulnerabilities, and exploits affecting computer systems.
It starts with a goal or target.
In cybersecurity, this is the computer application or network you're assessing.
Side note that you should never attack
a computer system you don't own or have explicit permission to attack.
As you're setting your goal,
understand why you're assessing its security.
Step 2 is to learn as much as you can about it.
This means googling it.
Hackers don't work from ignorance.
Step 3 is to explore your goal from all perspectives.
Understand how it works and what others know about it.
This is known as reconnaissance.
In ethical hacking, you add Step 4;
break it if and only if you have permission.
Here you understand the targets, weaknesses, or vulnerabilities.
Hired security penetration testers may have an extra job of attacking the target,
which means exploiting those vulnerabilities to simulate how the bad guys may act.
Those bad guys, by the way,
are known as threats.
If you break something, well,
you need to fix it. That's Step 5.
In this step, you secure operating systems,
applications, and networks to keep the bad guys out.
Step 6, is part of the hacker ethos,
where you always try to make the world a better place,
figure out a better way to secure that asset.
While evil hackers like to keep secrets,
ethical hackers are the exact opposite.
You tell others what you find.
It's called ethical disclosure.
For example, if you notice a problem on a website,
you'll let the website owner know about it.
It's really tied to making it better.
You'll start with an exercise where you perform reconnaissance on your own computers.
You will also perform reconnaissance on internet addresses to
understand what is publicly known about the internet assets.